Hey hey hey.
Welcome back to the chorus.
So to break up the pace a little bit from the let's do a theoretical case study pattern.
I'm actually going to instead go over that in a real case study.
So in the next couple lectures we're not going to review how you would set up a mini putt facility or
a co-working space or a club pub rip off.
We're going to analyze my last startup called scholar pro Yes we're going to go over a real model we
created about five years ago to raise a real round of capital.
Everything you're going to see and hear is a retelling of a real startup that went through four incubators
Yes four and raised three rounds of capital only to fold a couple years later.
Now why exactly did my sort of fail.
Obviously not a hundred percent sure because I had left about two years prior to this to work in venture
capital.
But I can guess and I will theorize in the next couple lectures zero set down children gather by the
fire and let me spin you a tale of a horrible a dysfunctional organization.
That was my first failed startup.
I say dysfunctional because well I won't get into it but let's just say it failed.
Therefore bad.
I said once upon a time in college I was a young naive lad and I was also a co-founder and a duo of
founders that wanted to solve the problem of higher education costs and specifically the efficient allocation
of private scholarships.
So you see when you go to college at least in the United States you really only have four options to
finance your education one you have to have your own money perhaps from a rich uncle or from your parents
who just really want to get you out of the house.
The second often is you get financial aid which is calculated based on your lack of resources back in
category 1.
Typically financial aid covers everything for people who are extremely poor and then some varying degrees
of a fraction for ones that have some means.
Now if your family made $50000 for instance you might not even qualify for financial aid and that's
even if it's for a single parent and you have five siblings so considering that some private schools
in the U.S. cost $50000 just a year it doesn't make a ton of sense and you can understand why a lot
of people are in a pinch.
Now the third source of funding you have are loans either from the school itself the federal government
or the guys largely responsible for the financial panic in 2008.
Fannie Mae also known as private lenders.
These are usually just typical loans with OK interest rates around like 6 to 9 percent it's actually
capped by the federal government.
And sometimes they have things like payment deferment and or other amenities.
And then lastly you have number four for fourth source of income which are scholarships now scholarships
are supposed to be based on a mix of merit.
I see you do well in school and need i.e. you can't afford college otherwise scholarships come from
either your university or through private lenders.
Now here's where it gets interesting.
Now we all know that the United States has a horrible problem with student debt and college affordability.
I don't need to throw numbers at you because it gets crazy.
I have classmates that estimate it will take them 30 years to pay off all of their debt just in time
for them to retire maybe at the same time the government says that every year it is something like $10
trillion exists in what we call unmet need.
Now let me break down what that term means because you don't all work in financial aid when you give
the government via your school your financial information.
They'll make a calculation of your ability to pay for college.
They'll also make a calculation of how much you would need an assistant.
So we just call that your need is essentially your need for assistance.
They then try their best to give you enough financial aid and loans to cover that amount they calculate
but they never completely cover that amount and add up all of that portion that isn't met and that's
how you get those statistics.
There's about $10 billion a year that the government says students cannot reasonably afford.
But they also cannot help you out with so good luck.
So people are kind of desperate for financing of any kind.
Now here's the twist.
So why is it that at the same exact time when there's $10 billion of unmet need floating out there that
there's over $100 billion in scholarship money a year that is actually given back to their donors because
they don't get enough applicants for their scholarship.
Yes let that sink in for a moment.
How many people didn't go to college that qualify for scholarships and they just didn't apply.
Yes.
So few people apply to scholarships that they literally cannot give their free money away.
It's it's ridiculous.
Such a weird circumstance.
So the solution presumably was our startup called scholar Parow not terribly original.
We found out the main reasons people didn't apply for scholarships was because one they didn't know
that they existed and to the scholarships themselves had zero coordination and work would require hundreds
of hours of students time to cover even a moderate portion of their unmet need.
So we decided to create a system that could index all of the scholarships across the country compile
their applications and then create what we call a common application for each student.
If you're someone who applied to college in the United States you might have used what was called the
Common Application the one that worked as instead of filing out 20 college applications and answering
the same questions over and over.
Yes this is my birthdate.
Yes.
This is my father's middle name and this is why I want to go to college.
You could just do it once and they would send it out to all of the colleges for you instead.
Then any differences in the individual applications and the common application could be called a supplement.
And if the student wanted to say go to Harvard Well then you have to answer a couple more essays that
were part of Harvard's supplement.
So hopefully you are following along.
That's what we wanted to do with scholarships.
And wild guess what.
Eighty five percent of scholarship applications in the United States overlap.
It was like close to 70 percent of their questions to target the whole issue of finding the scholarships.
Wow.
That would be fixed by just doing a better job of rounding them up to begin with.
At this point the only way to find scholarships in the U.S. was to use Google.
And then there's a company called fast web which you actually referred to before which is an insidious
company that helped you find scholarships.
But really there is a search engine that sold your information to private lenders.
So that was it.
You want scholarships you go to our system you search based on your criteria.
It says who you can apply to and it's a common application for you to fill out.
OK so there were a lot of different ways to make money off of this business.
You could sell consumer subscriptions to the individual person applying.
You could charge them every time you send out an application.
You can put up ads to make the whole thing free.
You can also sell data if you're a terrible person.
We tried a lot of these things minus you know selling data because that's sleazy for about two years.
We tried selling seats directly through colleges.
Colleges know how much their students are struggling with financing and they don't really know what
to do their kind of stuck in the middle.
It also really sucks when you have someone drop out because of cost or lowers or your school's retention
numbers and eliminates some of the best applicants that could have gone there.
This unfortunately didn't really work out for us.
Selling to the colleges he didn't give that to their students because the sales cycle i.e. the time
it takes to complete a sale was insanely long.
They were so bureaucratic that even if you had 10 people in a department saying yes we want it it could
easily take 18 months before they ever pay you.
You can't run a startup off of that.
So instead we decided to sell yearly subscriptions and use colleges as a vehicle instead to just promote
the systems.
It's easy for colleges to send out an email and it saves us a lot of money from placing ads everywhere
trying to get students to come to the Web site.
The idea was that the student would sign up then apply and then we would store all their data on the
application statuses and then auto reapply them for new ones as they came up.
If we had the information and their consent that's why we were thinking a yearly subscription model
at this time.
Believe it or not you can apply for scholarships year around and while you're in college if I had obviously
to do it all over again.
No I would not have pursued the same model but.
Well such is life.
OK so enter the business model we are about to look over.
This model was true story used to raise our second round of capital.
We were gunning for 1.5 million and we raised I think is a little bit under a million like 950000 I
think because we wanted to close earlier and get out of that fundraising hell limbo because when your
fundraising can't do anything other than fund raise it just sucks up that much time.
So if you think the models we've been going over in this course can't possibly be good enough to raise
money.
Actually think again this model is a little bit more complicated because we needed some more like standard
information like profit loss statements.
But we could have easily made it shorter and simpler.
I also did a lot of things wrong which you will see because well I was 21 at the time.
OK so let's recap before we jump and scholar was an application online like a web application that you
paid yearly to use it connected you to scholarships you're eligible for an expedited the application
process by eliminating redundancies.
Our main channel of acquisition was universities themselves in the reserves it's all try to include
as much literature as I can if you don't feel like you understand this well enough or maybe when we
go out there going to be models it'll come together a little bit more either way I'll see you in the
next lecture.